
******************************************************************
     ****Instructions for use of ECHRES in EFITVIEWER****   
                       R. Prater and Xi Chen
                           May 21, 2016
						 
The echres code interfaces to the ECH system and facilitates
calculating ECH effects by running the TORAY-GA code.

To run the echres code, start the efitviewer by issuing the command
"efitviewer",  choose an equilibrium, then click the "Diagnostic
Overlays" button in the equilibrium window.  Click the
"ECH-resonance" item in the Diagnostics and Overlays window.

EQUILIBRIUM

echres can run with any size of g-file up to 257x257. (Toray will 
not run on equilibria larger than 257x257.)

The toroidal field may be scaled using the g.bcentr widget. When a
new value is entered, the toroidal field is scaled. The plasma
current is also scaled proportionally, to keep the q profile fixed.
Note that this scaling does not produce a real equilibrium, so large
changes will be inaccurate.


CONFIGURATION TABLE

When the echres window appears, the first thing is to pick the ECH
setup. This can be retrieved from MDSplus for the instant shot and
time by using the 'Get MDS ECH Setup' button. Alternatively, the
setup may be retrieved from a file  using the 'Read Setup file'
button. The presently available set of gyrotrons can be retrieved by
hitting the 'Present Gyrotron Setup' button, which is a good way to
start a completely new setup. Note that this setup is NOT the
current set of angles or polarizers; just the gyrotron names.

Picking a setup enters values into the upper table, showing the
frequency, launcher, port, and tank (system) number the gyrotron is
connected to for the intant shot. The frequency column is editable,
with up to three unique frequencies. The Xfrac column is also
editable (the desired fraction of X-mode: 0.0 or 1.0). 

The cyclotron resonances will be overplotted on the equilibrium
window, along with the vacuum ray trajectories. Different
frequencies have different line-styles.

The 'Inputs as archived' buttons tell whether the data is as
archived in MDSplus or whether the user has modified some value in
the configuration table or output table. 


WRITING A SETUP FILE

The ECH setup may be written to a user file by hitting the 'Save
setup file' button.  If the instant shot is after the last
calibration data were entered, the 'Hardware config:' widget will
indicate 'Present'; that is, the data reflect the most recent
calibration. Earlier shots will indicate the 'Historical' setup;
that is,using the calibrations for that shot. To save a setup for 
use on future shots, the 'Use Present Hardware Config' button should
be hit first, so that the present calibrations will be used. 

After switching from 'Historical' to 'Present', it may be necessary
to hit the 'Get Polarizers' button in order to obtain polarizer
settings that will provide high mode purity.

The 'Save setup, send to TIMCON' button first saves the setup file and 
then sends it to the TIMCON system for implementation. The path to this 
saved setup file should be 'searchable' ('x' permission) by others.
For using ECH-resonance on Iris, it is suggested to save the setup files
to /fusion/projects/results/echres/username


ECH OUTPUT TABLE (lower table)

The second table, the ECH output table, contains information about
the setup as well as some calculated data. The 'Xfrac' column is the
actual % mode purity, the polar and azimuthal angles describe the
launch angles, and the 'Pol Cts' and 'Tor Cts' hold the poloidal
(~vertical) and toroidal (~horizontal) steering counts for the
antenna encoders. The 'Pol 1' and 'Pol 2' are the rotational
settings of the two polarizer gratings. 

The antenna steering may be changed by entering new values for the
polar or azimuthal angle or the poloidal or toroidal counts.
Changing any one of these values will also update the others, and
plot the new vacuum ray trajectory on the equilibrium. 

There are limits on where the ECH beams may be steered, to avoid
heating the graphite tiles surrounding the launcher. If the steered
location is out of bounds, the counts will turn red and a port map
will appear. Moving the angle or counts back in bounds will cause
the map window to disappear and the count values to turn black.


SELECTING KINETIC PROFILES

The kinetic profiles can be selected as 'Zipfits' or 'gaprofiles'
files. In the latter case, echres will look in the starting
directory for the files. If not found there, the code will put up a
dialog box to ask where to look. The only necessary profiles are
electron density and electron temperature. The Zeff profile also
plays a role, and if not found then echres will use a constant value
of 1.75.

The 'Plot profiles' button will plot the fitted profile and the data
it was fit from in a new window. Pressing the button again will
cause the window to disappear.

You can scale the profiles by entering new values in the 'n_e(0)' or
'T_e(0)' widgets. These scale the entire profile so the central
value has the entered value.


WRITING GLOBAL INONE

When the ECH settings are complete and the profiles are selected,
the 'Write global inone' button will cause a file 'inone_global' to
be written in the dir /cluster-scratch/username/echres/shotnumber/. 
This procedure will read the Ti, rotation, and radiation profiles.
If Ti is unavailable, Ti = Te will be used.
If rotation and radiation are unavailable, it will enter zeros for
the values. It accesses the neutral beam values using Petty's
nbi12_8sources, with this code modified to use information about
tilted beams and sources. The resulting file can be renamed to
'inone' and the ONETWO transport code can be run by issuing the
command for the latest version of ONETWO. Presently, this is
/fusion/projects/codes/onetwo/bin/onetwo, which will run on any
64-bit linux computer. 

There is an option to write the global inone file, just select 
'None' for the 'Kinetic Profiles' in the main window

RUNNING TORAY 

You can run the TORAY-GA code by pressing the 'Run TORAY' button.'
This runs TORAY-GA for the equilibrium, profiles, and ECH setup in
the widgets. The run takes place in the directory
/cluster-scratch/username/echres/shotnumber/. After running, the 
fractional absorption, the value of rho where the absorption peaks,
and the total driven current appear in the lower table. Plots of the
ECH profiles and other data appear in the new window.

Printing the postscript file is the best way to save data, as the
fits, the input table, the output table, and the launcher setup is
all printed on one page along with the profiles of q and j.

The rho_EC column of the output table is the rho of peak absorption
of the central ray. The peak rho of the profile plot window and the
postscript file is the radial location of the peak of the sum of all
the rays. These can be slightly different. The diamond symbol
oplotted on the ray in the equilibrium window is the location of the
peak absorption of the central ray.

For experts: Toray runs with many pre-set parameters. Some of these
may be modified by users for  their individual needs. To do so, copy
the namelist file $ECHRES_PATH/.echres_prefs  to your top
level directory. The namelist elements described in this file may
be  modified to suit your needs. 

When the window with the j and q profiles has been created, the
buttons at the bottom of the window can be used to toggle between
nominal 1 MW/gyrotron for every gyrotron plotted or for the actusal
powers present in the input table. Also the sum of the power
densities and current densities will be plotted in the case of
actual powers. The "Expand/full rho" button toggles between
rho=[0,1]  and an expanded scale covering the radial extent where
q_ECH > 0. When either  of these buttons is selected, a new
postscript file is generated which will  overwrite the previous ps
file.


RUNNING CQL3D

A button, 'Spawn CQL3D', spawns the CQL3D Fokker-Planck code. Before
runnning CQL3D, the TORAY-GA runs must be complete, as the output
files from TORAY are input files for CQL3D. The CQL3D calculations
take typically 20 minutes, so this process is disconnected from the
session and an email is generated when complete. You can modify the
rho values where the FP equation is solved, shown as the symbols on
the axis of the q_e profile in the TORAY Plot Window, by editing the
cqlinput file rya values. CQL3D runs only on 64-bit linux computers.
The CQL3D output files, netcdf and a postscript file, are placed in
the directory /cluster-scratch/user/echres/shotnumber/cql##/.


AUTOAIMER

The AutoAimer is a way to choose the optimum ECH angles. The
AutoAimer button brings up a GUI which lets the user specify; the
objective (ECH without ECCD; maximizing I_ECCD; or maximizing
j_ECCD); the toroidal sign of ECCD using the right-hand rule; the
desired value of rho; the number of rays (30 is usually used); and
the number of values of the polar and azimuthal angles to use.
Pressing 'Start' runs TORAY for the matrix of polar and azimuthal
angles and plots the contours of rho, j_ECCD, or I_ECCD in that
space. Clicking on the plot pastes the angles into the widgets below
the plot. 


CONTROL OF ECHRES PARAMETERS

Sometimes it is necessary or convenient to change some aspects of
the operation of echres. This can be done through a file
.echres_prefs which should lie in the user's top level directory.
This file can contain the following:

 $ECHRES
  ! ds =          0.5          ! step size for toray ray (cm)
  ! dsmin =       0.2          ! min step size (cm)
  ! smax = 500.0               ! max ray length (cm)
  ! idamp       =       8      ! damping model (8 is default)
  pow_avg_half_period = 2.0    ! half averaging period (msec)
  !!!! Following are for non-DIII-D installations !!!!
  ! scratch_path = ''          ! eg, '/cluster-scratch' or '.' or ...
  ! first_shot_allowed = 123575! for use with non-DIIIO-D 
  ! tokamak = 'DIII-D'         ! or 'EAST' or 'KSTAR'
  ! paths_to_files = '$ECHRES_PATH/paths_to_files'
 $END_OF_ECHRES

The last entry in .echres_prefs is the path to a file containing
paths to other files needed by echres. For DIII-D, these are entered
by default, but other installations will have to write this file, in
the following format:

toray_path=/fusion/projects/codes/toray/toray/xtoray
cql3d_path=/fusion/projects/codes/cql3d/bin/xcql3d
echres_present_setup=$ECHRES_PATH/present.setup
echres_instructions=$ECHRES_PATH/Instructions
echres_inone_template=$ECHRES_PATH/inone_linux8
echres_cqlinput_template=$ECHRES_PATH/cqlinput_template
echres_torayin_template=$ECHRES_PATH/toray.in_template

on Saturn/Iris
$ECHRES_PATH --- path to 
/fusion/projects/codes/echres/d3d/echres.compile

NAMELIST DATA ENTRY

Namelist data entry is for use with non-DIII-D configurations,
where nothing is available from an MDSplus database. For example,
cases for ITER can be run this way.

All inputs to echres can be made by use of a namelist file, which
should have the following elements. Up to 6 ECH systems can be
used. In addition, your local ~/.echres_prefs file can be used to
control the operation of TORAY-GA. The file name should have '.ech' suffix.

ECH data
&echinputs
 !
 NUM_SYSTEMS = 2                      ! Number of systems, up to 6
 !
 ! ECH system (each has num_systems entries)
 !
 GYROTRON =       'Hello'  'Dolly'    ! gyrotron names
 FREQ_GHZ =      172.000   140.000    ! frequency, GHz
 R_LAUNCH_M =      6.485     8.500    ! launch r location, m
 Z_LAUNCH_M =      4.110     0.550    ! launch z location, m
 POLAR_DEG =     145.000    75.000    ! polar angle of ray bundle, deg
 AZIMUTHAL_DEG = 210.000   185.000    ! azimuthal angle
 HLWEC_DEG =       1.177     1.200    ! angular dispersion of ray bundle, deg
 POWER_MW =        1.100     0.800    ! incident power, MW
 WRFO =            0.990     0.980    ! fraction of power in o-mode
 NHARM =           1         1        ! harmonic number for ECCD calculation
 !
 ! TORAY control parameters:
 !
 USE_ALPHA_BETA = .FALSE.             ! polar -> alpha, azimuthal -> beta
 DS_CM = 1.1                          ! ds for toray ray tracing, cm
 DSMIN_CM = 0.45                      ! minimum ds in absorption region
 GAUSZONES = 4                        ! number of radial zones in Gaussian distribution
 IDAMP = 8                            ! absorption model
 !
 ! Kinetic profiles
 !
 NJENE = 4                            ! number of density knots, up to 101
 RENEIN =   0.0 0.245 0.740 1.0 0.0
   0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0
   0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0
   0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0
   0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0
   0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0
 ENEIN = 5.34078e+13  4.63186e+13  3.61325e+13  2.09374e+13 0.0
   0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0
   0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0
   0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0
   0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0
   0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0
 NJTE =   5
 RTEIN =   0.00000  0.435402  0.931217  0.980207  1.00000  
   0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0
   0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0
   0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0
   0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0
   0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0
 TEIN =   2.82364  1.85031  0.503610  0.218340  0.0500000  
   0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0
   0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0
   0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0
   0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0
   0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0
 NJTI =   4
 RTIIN =   0.00000  0.651484  0.989470  1.00000  0.0
   0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0
   0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0
   0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0
   0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0
   0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0
 TIIN =   4.12922  1.48687  0.565456  0.493967  0.0
   0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0
   0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0
   0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0
   0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0
   0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0
 NJZEF =   11
 RZEFFIN =   0.00000  0.100000  0.200000  0.300000  0.400000  0.500000
 0.600000  0.700000  0.800000  0.900000  1.00000
   0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0
   0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0
   0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0
   0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0
 ZEFFIN =   1.73318  1.75436  1.80446  1.85823  1.90606  1.96523  2.04393
 2.13377  2.22979  2.29685  2.21308
   0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0
   0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0
   0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0
   0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0
 /

